# EulerCharacteristicTransform_Molecules
This repository contains the experiments of applying Euler CharacteristicTransform (ECT) to molecule learning task, as well as their comparison with baseline methods (GNNs, fingerprints)


## Usage

1) Clone this repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/victosdur/EulerCharacteristicTransform_Molecules.git
```

2) Create a virtual environment (it has been developed specifically using Python3.10.11):

```bash
virtualenv -p python env
```

3) Activate the virtual environment:

```bash
env\Scripts\activate
```

4) Install the neccesary dependencies:

#### Option 1

```bash
pip install rdkit pandas matplotlib torch torch_geometric tqdm networkx seaborn xgboost
```

To install the "dect" library:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/aidos-lab/dect.git #  require an up-to-date installation of PyTorch, either with (pip install torch torchvision torchaudio --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu126) or without (pip install torch) CUDA support: 
```

Remember to install ipykernel to use the kernel of the created virtual environment:

```bash
pip install ipykernel
```

#### Option 2

If you want to have exactly the same dependencies and the versions which have been used for the experiments, you can installed it using:

```bash
pip install requeriments.txt
```

## Repository structure

- utils.py: This file contains some functions used in the notebooks.

- data/: This folder contains the data used in the experiments. It contains the ADRA1A dataset in sdf file, and the CSV generated by the DatasetPreparation.csv. The rest sdf file are from another molecules dataset, that aren't used in the experiments by the moment. In addition, you can find me in the folder Data/Fingerprint_ADRA1A/ some fingerprint data and descriptor data from the ADRA1A dataset. Actually, the experiments only includes ECFP4 fingerprint and FGCount descriptor.

- results/: This folder contains the results in format csv for each method. Then, it is used in the ComparisonMethods.ipynb

- figures/: This folder contains the figures generated in the experiments.

- requirements.txt: This file contains all the dependencies of the project.

